Hypothesis testing is basically a framework to answer questions with data driven insights. But hypothesis testing can also be a supportive tool to be used to evaluate models or to help with feature selection.

We as data scientist care about **hypothesis testing in statistics**. Here, the goal is to determine whether it is likely that a random variable follows the proposed distribution. This is done using sample statistics derived from data. The process involves combining the hypothesis with data to make a decision on whether to reject or not reject the hypothesis. A **statistical hypothesis**, is then a proposed distribution that explains a set of random variables. 
## Basic Statistical Idea behind Hypothesis Testing and Connection to CI
Let's say we have the following null hypothesis: $H_0: \mu = 50$. With the standard error and the sample we can construct the confidence intervals (how that is done, [[Sampling#Confidence Intervals|here]]). Let's assume that the confidence interval, with a confidence level of 95%, is (41.43, 58.57). This means we are **95% confident** that the true population mean $\mu$ lies within this interval. This again means that we have no evidence that the null hypothesis is false. If we had a confidence interval of let's say (53,5, 63,7) we would be pretty sure, with 5% margin of error) that the population mean is not 50 and we can therefore reject the null hypothesis. This is the basic idea of hypothesis testing. 
## Hypothesis Testing and Descriptive Statistics
Hypothesis testing and descriptive statistics can seem to be almost the same. For example let's say we investigate the stress in students and figure out (via descriptive statistic) that 30% of students from the data sample suffers from stress. Why is it still valid to test the hypothesis: *30% of students suffer from stress.*?

To answer this question, we define the distinction between hypothesis testing and descriptive statistics like this: We start with descriptive statistics, and use these to understand our dataset, identify patterns, and formulate hypotheses. We then proceed to hypothesis testing, and use testing to validate or refute claims about the population based on what you’ve observed in your sample. For our example that would mean that we calculate a test statistic and p-value to decide if the observed 30% in your sample supports or contradicts the claim about the population (this can still be done on the same data set!). 

**=> Hypothesis testing calculates the likelihood of observing the sample statistic assuming the assumption for the whole population (null hypothesis) is true!**

